[#4879] Worldline payment webhooks (#5498)
open-formulieren/open-forms: docs/developers/plugins/payment/worldline.rst

.. _developers_plugins_payment_worldline:

========================
Worldline payment plugin
========================

Developers can setup a local environment to test the Worldline payment plugin. See
:ref:`configuration_payment_worldline` on how to setup a **Worldline merchant** and
configure webhooks with the **Worldine Webhook configuration**.

Testing webhooks with Ngrok
===========================

To locally test webhooks a service like https://ngrok.com can be used. To generate
an **Auth Token** for local usage you will have to signup for an account. The following
steps assume you have access to a local docker setup.

1. After the registration process follow the  click on the **Your Authtoken** link

>    in the sidebar on the leftunder the **Getting Started** section.

Reviewer: this sentence doesn't run very well 😄

2. Click the **Copy** button to copy your **Authtoken** which will be used later on.

3. Run the following command to start the Ngrok container which will redirect requests
   from Worldline to your local setup:

    .. code-block:: bash

>        docker run --net=host -it -e NGROK_AUTHTOKEN=<your-authtoken> ngrok/ngrok:latest http <django-server-listen-port>

Reviewer: ah I just installed the (AUR) package I think, it's probably enough docs-wise to say something like "you can use ngrok to expose your local dev environment to the internet so that webhooks can be delivered" and it's up to the developer to get ngrok or a similar solution on their system :)

> 4. Copy the first value shown in the Ngrok CLI interface under **Forwarding**. It's
>    value will look similiar to the following value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the first value shown in the Ngrok CLI interface under **Forwarding**. It should
   look similiar to the following value:
```

    .. code-block:: bash

       https://eb6b18ae86e5.ngrok-free.app

> 5. Next head to Worldline's Merchant Portal and create a webhook endpoint with the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Next, head to Worldline's Merchant Portal and create a webhook endpoint with the URL
```

   from step 4 in combination with the path where Open Forms expects webhooks for the
   Worldline payment plugin. The webhook path can seen in the admin overview page
   of the **Worldline merchant** section in Open Forms (whenever atleast one merchant
   is present).

> 6. After having the webhook endpoint created in the Merchant Portal create a form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After having the webhook endpoint created in the Merchant Portal, create a form
```
